README.md, before:

# GARDEN

# LOCAL Setup

## Install correct version of node

`nvm use`

## Local PostgreSQL Setup (Docker)

### 1. Install Docker

If you don’t have Docker installed yet:

- Download **Docker Desktop**:  
  [https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)

### 2. Setup a local postgres container using Docker

```bash
docker run --name local-postgres \
  -e POSTGRES_USER=postgres \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres \
  -e POSTGRES_DB=garden \
  -p 5432:5432 \
  -d postgres:17
```

### 3. .env file for local dev

Create a .env file in both web and api folders. It should have all the required ENV vars for the api to run.
Place the following env vars in the files:

apps/api/.env:

```
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_USER=postgres
DB_PASS=postgres
DB_NAME=garden
DB_PORT=5432
DEV_API_URL=<your-dev-api-gateway-url>
AWS_REGION=us-east-1
IS_LOCAL=true
```

apps/web/.env:

```
VITE_BUILD_ID
VITE_COMMIT_SHA
VITE_API_BASE_URL
VITE_AWS_REGION
VITE_COGNITO_DOMAIN
VITE_COGNITO_USER_POOL_ID
VITE_COGNITO_USER_POOL_CLIENT_ID
```

### 4. Use Drizzle to view database (you can also use your preferred db viewer like Beekeeper)

`npx drizzle-kit studio`

# INFRA Commands

## Log into AWS CLI as Dev Profile

`aws sso login --profile dev`

# db migrations (must be run in apps/api directory)

## generate migrations

`npm run drizzle:gen`

## apply migrations

`npm run drizzle:migrate`

## Run Prettier against all files (needed to satisfy pre-commit hook)

`npx prettier --write "**/*.{ts,tsx,md}"`

# Adding UI Components

This project uses `shadcn/ui` for the component library, which is located in the `packages/ui` workspace.

To add a new component (e.g., `button`), run the following command from the `apps/web` directory:

```bash
npx shadcn-ui@latest add [component]
```

Commit message:

Added instructions on adding shadcn components in readme (more)

README.md, after:

# GARDEN

# LOCAL Setup

## Install correct version of node

`nvm use`

## Local PostgreSQL Setup (Docker)

### 1. Install Docker

If you don’t have Docker installed yet:

- Download **Docker Desktop**:  
  [https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)

### 2. Setup a local postgres container using Docker

```bash
docker run --name local-postgres \
  -e POSTGRES_USER=postgres \
  -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=postgres \
  -e POSTGRES_DB=garden \
  -p 5432:5432 \
  -d postgres:17
```

### 3. .env file for local dev

Create a .env file in both web and api folders. It should have all the required ENV vars for the api to run.
Place the following env vars in the files:

apps/api/.env:

```
DB_HOST=localhost
DB_USER=postgres
DB_PASS=postgres
DB_NAME=garden
DB_PORT=5432
DEV_API_URL=<your-dev-api-gateway-url>
AWS_REGION=us-east-1
IS_LOCAL=true
```

apps/web/.env:

```
VITE_BUILD_ID
VITE_COMMIT_SHA
VITE_API_BASE_URL
VITE_AWS_REGION
VITE_COGNITO_DOMAIN
VITE_COGNITO_USER_POOL_ID
VITE_COGNITO_USER_POOL_CLIENT_ID
```

### 4. Use Drizzle to view database (you can also use your preferred db viewer like Beekeeper)

`npx drizzle-kit studio`

# INFRA Commands

## Log into AWS CLI as Dev Profile

`aws sso login --profile dev`

# db migrations (must be run in apps/api directory)

## generate migrations

`npm run drizzle:gen`

## apply migrations

`npm run drizzle:migrate`

## Run Prettier against all files (needed to satisfy pre-commit hook)

`npx prettier --write "**/*.{ts,tsx,md}"`

# Adding UI Components

This project uses `shadcn/ui` for the component library, which is located in the `packages/ui` workspace.

To add a new component (e.g., `button`), run the following command from the `apps/web` directory and they all be added to `packages/ui/components`:

```bash
npx shadcn-ui@latest add [component]
```
